Add read counts (#866)
AlexsLemonade/scpca-nf: scripts/compare-metrics/compare-metrics-template.rmd

  dplyr::mutate(
    # make corresponding field names for cell counts
    cell_count_field = stringr::str_replace(field, "^(.+?)_.+", "\\1_cells")
  ) |>
  dplyr::anti_join(
    # remove rows that have corresponding cell count changes
    # adt_scpca_filter_count does not filter cells, so we don't want to include those
    changed_cell_counts,
    by = c("project_id", "sample_id", "library_id", "cell_count_field" = "field")
  )

has_read_changes <- nrow(changed_read_counts) > 0
```

```{r}
# summary text for read count section
if (!has_read_changes && !has_cell_changes) {
  knitr::asis_output(
    "There are no changes in read counts between the reference and comparison runs."
  )
} else if (!has_read_changes) {
  knitr::asis_output(
    "There may be changes in read counts, but only those expected due to changes in cell counts as described above."
  )
} else {
  n_projects <- dplyr::n_distinct(changed_read_counts$project_id)
  n_libraries <- dplyr::n_distinct(changed_read_counts$library_id)
  glue::glue("
    The tables below show changes in read counts between the reference and comparison workflow runs at various stages of processing.

>     These include only changes that are not expected based on changes in cell counts.<br>

Reviewer: I agree with only showing those that have a different count but don't have a change in cell number.

    There {ifelse(n_added == 1, 'is', 'are a total of')} **{n_libraries}** {ifelse(n_libraries == 1, 'library', 'libraries')}
    with read count changes from **{n_projects}** {ifelse(n_projects == 1, 'project', 'projects')}.
  ") |>
    knitr::asis_output()
}
```

```{r}
# warn if any unfiltered read counts have changed
unfiltered_read_changes <- changed_read_counts |>
  dplyr::filter(stringr::str_detect(field, "^unfiltered_")) |>
  nrow()

if (unfiltered_read_changes > 0) {
  glue::glue("
    <div class=\"alert alert-danger\">

>     **Warning**: Unfiltered cell counts have changed between the reference and comparison runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Warning**: Total reads for unfiltered cells have changed between the reference and comparison runs.
```
Since we're talking reads here and not cell counts.

    **{unfiltered_read_changes}** {ifelse(unfiltered_read_changes == 1, 'library is', 'libraries are')} affected.
    </div>
  ") |>
    knitr::asis_output()
}
```

```{r, eval=has_read_changes}
knitr::asis_output("#### Summary")
```

```{r eval=has_read_changes}
# Summary table of read count changes
read_field_n <- read_changes |>
  dplyr::count(field)

read_summary <- changed_read_counts |>
  dplyr::summarise(
    .by = c("field"),
    n_changed = sum(is.na(change) | change != 0),
    mean_change_frac = mean(abs(change_frac[which(change != 0)]))
  ) |>
  dplyr::left_join(read_field_n, by = "field") |>
  dplyr::mutate(
    library_change_frac = n_changed / n
  ) |>
  dplyr::select(
    field,
    n,
    n_changed,
    library_change_frac,
    mean_change_frac
  )

report_table(
  read_summary,
  colnames = c("Metric", "Libraries", "Number of libraries changed", "% of libraries changed", "Mean % change")
) |>

>   DT::formatPercentage(c("library_change_frac", "mean_change_frac"), 2)

Reviewer: One thing I noticed is that we have a lot of 0.00% change for the change and percent change in the detail and then the mean % change in the summary. I think that's to be expected here since the changes are very small in comparison to the total number of reads. We could extend the number of digits we show? Or not worry about it, but I just wanted to point it out.

Author: I think for now not worrying about it... Curious what things look like with real data: I expect that we mostly won't have changes in this section, except perhaps tiny changes in the normalized counts.

Reviewer: > I think for now not worrying about it... Curious what things look like with real data: I expect that we mostly won't have changes in this section, except perhaps tiny changes in the normalized counts.

Yea I totally agree. I was trying to think of a scenario where we would see read changes but no count changes and that was all I could think of. I hope we don't see large changes without changes in cell counts 😬

```

> ```{r eval=has_read_changes}

Reviewer: I might alter the width of these plots since some of the x-axis labels are getting cut off.

Author: This was a bit unpredictable in my testing; I think for now I'm just going to leave it until we have real data.
